hey guys welcome to my channel today
we're going to talk about learning
english fast and i know a lot of you
guys are struggling
to move from intermediate to advanced to
upper intermediate
and this has been my problem as well and
i'm going to talk about the things that
really helped me
move from you know i learn english i
read in english but i can't really speak
good i don't really understand native
speakers sometimes
i'm kind of in the middle i kind of know
english but i can't really use it
so i will try to take you today
lift you up from your intermediate and
show you ways of where to go if you want
to become
advanced very soon so if you're
interested
in speaking english like a native
speaker continue watching this video and
make sure to watch it up to the very end
and make sure to smash the like button
right now if you think that the topic
is useful i'm waiting for you to smash
the like button
good this video is brought to you by
skillshare
so first of all make sure you have a
very clear
goal and a target so before i was 14
years old
i was like english is amazing my parents
tell me to learn english
great i'm gonna do that but at the age
of 14 i went to the uk
and i saw a completely different life i
saw
people chasing various goals i tried
british food
i saw the culture and i was like i want
to be a part of that world
i want to be a part of this western
world because i was born and raised in
russia
it all seemed completely different from
where i came from
and i knew that the only way for me to
become
a part of that world was first to learn
english and to speak it like a native
speaker
and second succeed in my studies because
english
is just a way to integrate into society
english is just
an instrument that will get you
somewhere and apart from english you
also need something else right because
you don't want to end up just being a
great
english speaker you want to end up being
a great english speaker
talking about a topic of your expertise
and this is when i realized okay
so this is where i move from just
learning english like grammar vocabulary
this is where i moved to learning about
something in english and because i was
my dream was to go and study in great
britain so i started researching
universities in the uk i started
researching scholarships and i started
to use my intermediate english for it
i started to read articles and this way
i was able to improve my vocabulary and
because i was so
passionate about this topic it wasn't
really a struggle for me i wanted to do
that i
waited for that one hour in the evening
that i had to do my research
so this is something i would advise you
to do find a topic
that interests you the most set a goal
for example complete a course on
photography or completed course and
productivity in english
and then go towards it move towards it
and always
check back with yourself am i enjoying
what i do am i enjoying my goal because
this is the most important thing
the next advice might be a little
counterintuitive but people keep telling
you read a lot
read a lot read a lot doesn't really
work with english because you know what
i noticed
happened to me when i started reading a
lot especially when i started reading a
lot on a topic that is professional
there were so many words that are
specific to that topic like
medicine or whatever i couldn't
pronounce them
i kind of read them i understood what
they meant but would you ever check like
ob gyn how to pronounce it i was like ob
gyn or whatever
and that was the wrong way to pronounce
it so it is really important that you
not only read but you mostly focus on
listening to things in english on your
topic so this way
you are learning how to pronounce words
because that's really important because
again the problem that i had i knew a
lot of specific words
related to pregnancy for example because
i was first time pregnant here in the us
so i read a lot but then i came to my
doctor and i tried to say something and
she didn't get me because i was
pronouncing these words incorrectly and
this is when i realized i should have
listened more
instead of just reading the next advice
don't translate
word for word sometimes you're like oh
my god she just used this word that i
didn't understand let's just go back to
this and let me translate the whole
phrase
no this way you're going to lose
interest so if you're reading a book
and you know every paragraph you may be
meeting like two or three words that you
haven't seen before
that's totally fine if you still
understand the context if you still
understand the topic of the book
you still understand what's going on
then just let them
pass by let those words stay there in
the book no need to translate
everything just make sure you understand
the general idea
and this advice is by the way really
useful if you're just about to take
an english language test because in
english language tests they use the
strategy a lot
they use a lot of difficult words that
you don't really need to understand
they're doing this to confuse you to
make you scared but the questions that
they ask they don't really relate to
those words then they relate to general
idea
because i just recently took toefl i can
tell you that there were so many words
that i didn't understand and i've lived
in the u.s since 2016.
and they just want you to feel
overwhelmed with this academic
vocabulary but then they ask you
questions
to answer which you don't really need to
understand those complicated words
if you're learning english to live in a
foreign country
then forget about writing again this
might sound a little counter-intuitive
but what you need to analyze right now
is why do you need
english if you're going to stay in your
country and
all you gonna do is write academic
papers then yes
but you need to kind of allocate those
percentages to different areas of
english that you're gonna use so for
example
i live in the us eighty percent of my
time i speak english because i record
videos i talk to people
this means that i need to dedicate 80
of my time to speaking and listening and
only 20
of my time to reading and writing
because i want to
work on the skills that i need the most
so if you're planning on staying in your
country and
write academic papers in english then
yes 80
of your time dedicated to english should
be uh focusing on reading and writing
because this is the way you hone this
skill
and you don't really need to care about
speaking and listening but if you plan
on moving somewhere if you plan on
working in an english-speaking
environment
then you totally need to focus on
speaking and listening
the next advice is to take an online
course and we've already touched upon
this
a little early in this video but you
really need to
ask yourself what am i interested in
apart from english what am i interested
in so for example i am interested
in becoming more productive because i
have a baby i have three youtube
channels i have my instagram tick tock
companies
so many things going on in my life how
do i stay productive
how do i allocate my time depending on
what goals i have and by the way there
is an amazing course on skillshare
that can help you with that the course
and productivity that i really like
on skillshare is called productivity
today managing attention in the digital
age
i know all of us are learning english
digitally and you have so many things
going on in your laptop i have all of my
messengers i have my email i have people
calling me all the time
so i think it's really important to have
dedicated time slots when you're doing
something
to have dedicated time slots during the
week so for example one day you're
focusing on your listening
another day you're focusing on your
speaking um so you know just planning
things ahead and staying productive
and staying on top of your routine is
really really important and this is why
i recommend this course on skillshare
skillshare is an online learning
community when millions come together to
take the next step in their creative
journey with thousands of inspiring
classes for creative and curious people
on topics including illustration design
photography
video freelancing and productivity
skillshare is created specifically for
learning meaning there are no ads and
you're getting access to classes for
less than ten dollars a month with an
annual subscription the first 1000
followers who hit a link below
will get a free premium membership on
skillshare for
two months so you can totally explore
the course that i'm talking about
for free the next advice forget about
perfect grammar
because whenever you try to be perfect
in anything in a language
that slows you down because your brain
is like okay i need to say this phrase
in english
oh and i also want to make sure i sound
perfect and
this is just too much for your brain
because there's so much going on
you need to think about your ideas you
need to think about how to say them in
english and then you want to sound
perfect
maybe you want to use this past perfect
continuous tense don't do it
you can try to use it later i still
refrain from using it because that's too
much for my brain i just want to sound
simpler and easier
so yeah don't over complicate and don't
try to sound perfect it's totally okay
to make mistakes
and this is what i'm here for you know
i'm telling you about the right ways to
say different things about different
ways to say things
but please don't be perfect you're gonna
start saying something in a wrong way
but then you would hear
people answering you you would hear back
from people
and you would understand oh that didn't
sound right but you started a
conversation and that's the most
important thing
you will correct yourself later but
please please
start the next advice is try to listen
to everything
remember i was telling you about like
reading stuff and then
knowing how to pronounce it so try to
listen to audiobooks try to listen to
online courses try to listen to videos
to surround yourself with listening
to things in english and that will
really really help you
hone your listening skills and your
speaking skills as well
and the last but not the least practice
english every day
that's the key to success maybe it's 15
minutes maybe it's 20 minutes maybe it
means just watching my videos daily
maybe you're
you've downloaded an audiobook and you
listen to a chapter per day or you
started a course
on skillshare and you listen to a
lecture a day
this is really important to be
consistent and to do something
every single day thank you so much guys
for watching this video up to the very
end i hope it helps you become more
enthusiastic about learning english
and uh i hope it helped you to create a
plan in your head on how you're going to
go from intermediate
to advanced and i hope i gave you some
directions don't forget to subscribe to
this channel and smash the like button
if you enjoyed this content
and follow me on instagram linguamarina
if you want to
practice english daily because i make
stories daily
about english there and lingering on
tech talk see you soon
bye bye